CDH-3903: Initial version of release notes (#253)
SoftwareAG/c8y-releasenotes: content/release-10-18-0/datahub-10-18-0-bundle/10_18_0.md

---
weight: 40
title: Release 10.18.0
layout: bundle
---

Cumulocity IoT DataHub Release 10.18 includes the following improvements, limitations, and known issues:

### New version of internal query engine

Cumulocity IoT DataHub now uses version 24 of Dremio as query engine. The new version comes along with various features and improvements like a revamped user interface, simplified interaction with PowerBI, improved query performance.

### Efficient ODBC connectivity

> The ODBC driver required for running queries against Dremio now relies on Apache Arrow, whose columnar memory format allows for a more efficient ODBC-based query execution.

Reviewer: Would add that the legavy driver continues to work and that the new driver will use a different port (32010 by default)

### Enforcement of single data types

> Columns having multiple data types, so-called mixed types, can no more occur. During the offloading process, Cumulocity IoT DataHub takes care that the offloaded data has one type per column. If incoming data might lead to multiple types, either the associated offloading pipeline will be stopped or the resulting schema is automatically evolved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Columns having multiple data types, so-called mixed types, can no longer occur. During the offloading process, Cumulocity IoT DataHub takes care that the offloaded data has one type per column. If incoming data might lead to multiple types, either the associated offloading pipeline will be stopped or the resulting schema is automatically evolved.
```

### Improved handling of additional columns

The UI simplifies duplicating an additional column and changing the data type of the column.

### Limitations

|<div style="width:250px">Description</div>
|:---

> |Mixed usage of uppercase and lowercase characters for attribute names in the documents is not supported.|

Reviewer: This is not the case anymore. Dremio now can read both lowercase and uppercase properties from MongoDB. I.e., myprop and myProp would now both be read (as myprop). The only remaining limitation is that if BOTH attributes are set for the same document, only one of the values would be visible.

|If the collection to be offloaded has more than 800 JSON attributes, its data cannot be offloaded. This limitation also includes nested JSON content, which will be expanded into columns during offloading. Therefore, measurements documents with more than 800 series/series value fragments are not supported.|
|In previous releases, the *childDevices* and *childAssets* fields were part of the default offloading columns for the inventory collection. They are now excluded from the offloading process as their potentially high number of list items leads to problems. When that number exceeds a corresponding Dremio limit, the offloaded data is no longer readable. New inventory offloading configurations exclude those two fields. For existing inventory configurations, they are automatically added as additional result columns, in order to preserve the set of columns handled by the offloading configuration.|
|When using Microsoft Azure as data lake with IP white-listing being activated, Cumulocity IoT DataHub cannot access the data lake.|

### Known issues

|<div style="width:250px">Edition|Description|
|:---|:---|

> |Cloud|Data lake configuration validation is broken in terms of wrong bucket names (AWS S3) and wrong account names (Azure Storage). When saving the settings with an invalid bucket/account name, DataHub fails to quickly detect the problem and will instead run a time-consuming check, which shows up as an ongoing save request in the UI. Eventually the request will fail in the UI with a timeout and the save request in the backend will fail as well. In such a case, please carefully check the bucket/account name and try saving again.|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|Cloud|Data lake configuration validation is broken in terms of wrong bucket names (AWS S3) and wrong account names (Azure Storage). When saving the settings with an invalid bucket/account name, DataHub fails to quickly detect the problem and will instead run a time-consuming check, which shows up as an ongoing save request in the UI. Eventually, the request will fail in the UI with a timeout and the save request in the back end will fail as well. In such a case, please carefully check the bucket/account name and try saving again.|
```

Author: Comma is fixed; backend is again a standard term in this context.

So all in all we should be done...
